
FreeSteel README
================

FreeSteel is a command line tool, you need to run it from the command prompt.
There is no graphical interface. To see usage notes and options, add the "-h"
or "--help" argument after the file name.

This is an early release of FreeSteel. I do not have card specification and
have just a single eID to test if I got the field offsets and lengths right.

Please run this tool using eIDs of your friends, girlfriend, boyfriend,
parents, and verify if it is working OK. If you find that output is not
correct, please re-run the tool using dump option which will save binary data
into files and send them to me by private email. Inform the eID owner and ask
for explicit consent if you intent to send other's data.

Binary content contains only publicly available data of the smart card like
eID number, your full name and current address. I promise that I will not
collect, sell, publish or missuse your private data in any way.

Your help to improve and verify this tool is highly appreciate. Source code
is available for you to use, learn, modify and improve. I will be more than
happy to receive patches to fix bugs or add new features.


KNOWN BUGS
==========

PDF report feature is not implemented.


REQUIREMENTS
============

FreeSteel is cross-platform, and should work on Linux, Windows and MacOS X
operating system. You will need Python and PC/SC support for your platform.

There is one more dependancy, the pyscard package, a Python wrappers for PC/SC.
Install it from the repository or download from http://pyscard.sourceforge.net

Windows has native PC/SC support, but you may need the driver for your reader.

GNU/Linux users can use pcsc-lite by Ludovic Rousseau that should be available
for all distributions. Smart card reader need to be supported by pcsc-lite by
installing the correct driver. Most USB readers should work with the CCID
driver and for some other readers binary or source drivers are available in the
repositories or from the manufacturer. Running pcsc_scan -n should comfirm that
your reader installed and working properly:

    $ pcsc_scan -n
    PC/SC device scanner
    V 1.4.16 (c) 2001-2009, Ludovic Rousseau <ludovic.rousseau@free.fr>
    Compiled with PC/SC lite version: 1.5.3
    Scanning present readers...
    0: Gemplus GemPC Twin 00 00
    
    Mon Aug 23 04:27:04 2010
     Reader 0: Gemplus GemPC Twin 00 00
      Card state: Card inserted, Shared Mode, 
      ATR: 3B B9 18 00 81 31 FE 9E 80 73 FF 61 40 83 00 00 00 DF


MacOS X is supported by a port of pcsc-lite, installed by default. Again, you
may need the driver for your smart card reader or it may work with one of the
drivers already bundled with the system.


DEVELOPMENT
===========

I find gscriptor, usbmon and carddecoders very handy for developing FreeSteel.
It is possible to run official ЧЕЛИК application for Microsoft Windows as
released by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Republic of Serbia, using
NetSet middleware inside a virtual machine and trace USB calls on host using
usbmon. Recorded session log can be decoded using logdecoder from carddecoders
package by Christian Amsüss: http://christian.amsuess.com/tools/carddecoders/

Smart cards are defined in ISO 7816 standards, with ISO 7816-4 defining
commands for communications with the ISO 7816-compatible smart card. You need
to buy those from ISO, but an overview (and a must read) can be found at:
http://www.ttfn.net/techno/smartcards/iso7816_4.html  

There is a nice list of standard APDUs at http://cheef.ru/docs/HowTo/APDU.info


